



Google mission statement is “to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful.” Google is perhaps the most successful company 
to come up with a strategic approach to organize information for online users in the last two decades.

Founded in 2004, Facebook's mission is to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. People use Facebook to stay connected 
with friends and family, to discover what's going on in the world, and to share and express what matters to them.

In case studies, almost never they will explicitly tell you the metric you have to optimize for. Instead, they
will just tell you the business goal, such as improve retention, growth, mobile usage, etc. It is your
responsibility to mathematically translate the business goal into a metric. If you don't do it, it is an almost
automatic fail. If you do it, 90% of the question has been answered
When they ask you to choose a metric for a new feature, product, or even a department, start from the
high level company goal. In most cases, that is (or should be) growth. Then narrow it down. Example:
You can grow by increasing user retention or user acquisition
You can increase user retention by increasing user engagement
I pick metric X cause it is related to user engagement and, if I move it, I can realistically expect to
improve company growth
If you can't eventually link your metric to company growth, that's a huge warning that your metric isn't that
useful
The high majority of metrics need a time threshold in order to be evaluated. Average likes per user can't
be evaluated. Average likes per user per day can be evaluated. If the question is specifically about
building a metric, don't forget this
If asked how to improve a product, the easiest way is: focus on actions that you want to incentivize and
users are already performing today, but it takes them several steps on the app/website to finish them.
There is no better proxy for feature demand that users already doing something despite a complicated
user flow. Simplifying the flow will most likely improve your target metrics
If asked "Should we implement X" or "How to improve Z", the goal is simply explaining step by step how
you would find the answer, if you had the data in front of you. They are testing how you approach a
problem, not if you are a product visionary
When asked to optimize a long term metric like retention rate or lifetime value, the question means: find a
short term metric that can predict the long term one, and then focus on optimizing that one
Introduction
ID:298573 10
When asked to pick variables, pick a combination of user characteristics (age, sex, country, etc.) and
behavioral ones (related to their browsing behavior)
