How to choose the right metrics and set business goals?
SMART
AARRR

Begin at the top (company-wide level) and work your way down, repeating this step until every team member has clear metrics and goals they’re responsible for achieving.

Step 2 for building a goal-orientated team:
Choose good metrics and set goals that align with your mission and strategy.

Define the metric. Pretty much all case studies start with a vague goal and the first step is translating that
into a metric that can be optimized. I.e. "I define engagement on FB as the proportion of users who take at
least one action per day where action means interacting with the site, i.e. posting, liking, uploading a
picture, etc". As long as it makes sense, it doesn't matter much how the metrics is exactly defined, like
which thresholds you choose (once a day in this example) or which actions you choose to include or
whether you say average actions per user instead of pct of users above a certain threshold. But it is
crucial to define a concrete metric. For instance, response rate on Quora would not be a concrete metric.
It can't be evaluated, it is too vague. But percentage of questions that get at least one response within a
day is a metric. 

As a general advice, try to pick a metric that is related to the company mission. Like FB cares about
interactions between users, that's why above we picked actions that incentivize that. Quora cares about
high level content, so you might always want to include some quality measure (ex: responses with at least
3 up-votes within the first day), Airbnb is about "belonging anywhere" so focus on the fact that if you want
to go to a given place, you can do it, etc. Especially Silicon Valley companies love these things.

for example: 
Mission: "Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful." 

Avoid vanity metrics, i.e. metrics that look good, but are useless. A good way to quickly identify if my metrics
are useful is: imagine a bot is creating a bunch of fake accounts. Will my metrics go up? In the example above,
we are good. The engagement metric will drop and alert us that something not good is going on. On the other
hand, if you ONLY looked at new sign ups per day, you would be happy with the fake accounts. If they ask you
for just one metric, make sure it is not a metric that a bot could improve.

