Family-wise error rate (FWER) is the probability of making one or more false discoveries, or type I errors when performing multiple hypotheses tests.
The FWER is the probability of making at least one type I error in the family,


The problem is that, if you are running multiple tests at the same time, you are increasing the chances of
finding unlikely events by probability only. Imagine you flip a biased coin with 5% probability of getting head. If
you do it long enough, you will get a head. For the same reason, your significance level threshold in the tests
needs to be adjusted to balance the fact that more experiments are increasing the probability of finding unlikely
events.


In practice, the most common approach is to use the Bonferroni correction, simply dividing 0.05 by the number
of tests and this becomes the new threshold for significance. Another common approach is using false
We are running 30 tests at the same time, trying
different versions of our home page. In only one
case test wins against old home page. P-value is
0.04. Would you make the change?



Answer:
The answer is therefore no, I wouldn't make the change. Indeed, if I were using Bonferroni, I would make the
change only if test is better and p-value were less than 0.05/30.


Please, note that in this case the question was very straightforward. But you might also get it in a more
subliminal way. For instance, they show you one test results. Test is not significantly different. Then, they
segment the results by say 20 countries with large enough sample size. And show that one of these countries
is actually significantly better with 0.04 p-value. Then they ask you what you would do. This case is exactly the
same as the original question. By looking into several different segments, you are increasing the probability of
finding at least one winner by chance. And, therefore, you should change the significance threshold
accordingly. In this example, if you only looked at the 20 country segments, you could make it 0.05/20 using
Bonferroni.
